crystal2casino - wave function conversion from CRYSTAL09 to casino gwfn
=======================================================================

This directory contains a utility to convert the wave function data from
CRYSTAL09 for use in CASINO.

The entire process is automated by running crystal09 with the supplied CASINO
utility 'runcrystal'. If you choose to use this, then simply typing
'runcrystal -qmc input_filename' will run the SCF calculation as normal then
invoke all the necessary post-processing to generate the gwfn.data file
automatically.

The only complication is in periodic systems where, before executing the
CRYSTAL code, the run script will ask you how many different supercell sizes
you require. You then need to input that many integer triplets (divisors of
the CASINO 'shrinking factors') to specify the size of each of the supercells.
A gwfn.data file will then be generated for each required cell (appropriately
labelled with the integer triplet - rename them before running with CASINO).


Running the gwfn.data generation procedure manually
===================================================

If you choose to run CRYSTAL09 without our runcrystal script (say, with the
scripts provided by the Torino people) then you will need to carry out the
following manual procedure to generate the gwfn.data file(s).

Molecules
---------

After completing a converged DFT/HF run with the CRYSTAL09 'crystal' binary,
the 'properties' program needs to be run to produce the formatted data files
needed by the CASINO crysgen09 utility. A minimal input file for the
'properties' program in the case of a nonperiodic system is:

NEWK
1 0
CRYAPI_OUT
END

After running properties successfully, the directory should contain the files
GRED.DAT and KRED.DAT.  Running 'crysgen09' in the same directory reads these
files and writes gwfn.data for use in CASINO.

[Note that GRED.DAT has a slightly different format to the CRYSTAL06 GRED.DAT
because for some reason the overlap matrix has a different size (great way
to maintain an API).]

1D/2D/3D periodic systems
-------------------------

For periodic systems, the k-point mesh used within CRYSTAL should be an integer
multiple of the supercell size that is used in CASINO.
Within CRYSTAL, the mesh is defined using the SHRINK keyword followed by 1, 2
or 3 integers depending on the number of periodic dimensions.

Next, the input for the 'properties' program needs one additional line after
the NEWK keyword. To simply output the full k-point mesh that was used within
CRYSTAL, use the following:

NEWK
0 0
1 0
CRYAPI_OUT
END

After running properties successfully, the directory should contain the files
GRED.DAT and KRED.DAT

IMPORTANT: In periodic systems the program crysgen09 now needs to know some
parameters related to the size of the supercells required (the converter can
output several sizes of supercells in one run). These can be taken from a file
called crysgen.dat (which is normally automatically produced by the runqmc
script) -- but if this file is not present crysgen will ask you to input this
data on the command line.

For reference, a typical crysgen.dat indicating that three supercells of sizes
222, 333 and 444 should be generated might look like:

QMC
3
2 2 2
3 3 3
4 4 4
END

The first number it reads after the QMC line is the number N of different super cell sized is should produce. After this, it takes N triples of integers each
specifying one size of a supercell.  These supercells have to be integer
dividers of the k-point mesh that was output by the 'properties' program.
After all N triples are given, the individual gwfn.data files are produced for
use in CASINO.

Origin
------

The code is based on casino_interface.f90 by MDT that was originally intended
to become a module of crystal03. It is combined with the cryapi_inp.f
available from the crystal web page. A few additional routines were
copied from CRYSTAL to make the super cell multiplication work. The CRYSTAL
routines were converted to free format files and generally tidied.
